---
aliases: /news/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics
archetype: press-release
author:
  - Radhika Narayanan
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
  - /
  - /news/
  - ''
breadcrumbs:
  - Home
  - News
  - Cutting Edge Medical Devices Offer Innovative Options for Diabetics
categories:
  - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
  - 'U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): Medical Device Safety'
categorySlug:
  - 'medigy: media (press) release'
  - 'u.s. food and drug administration (fda): medical device safety'
categoryUrl:
  - topic/medigy-media-press-release
  - topic/u-s-food-and-drug-administration-fda-medical-device-safety
categoryLabel:
  - Media (Press) Release
  - Medical Device Safety
contentCategories: netspective-medigy-news-curated-content
institution: null
offering: null
layOut: news-press-release-single
date: '2022-09-29'
description: >-
  &nbsp;/PRNewswire/ -- In the modern technologically-driven healthcare
  landscape, the business model of medical device companies has evolved from
  device makers to problem solvers. In effect, medical de
favIconImage: null
featuredImage:
  alt: Cutting Edge Medical Devices Offer Innovative Options for Diabetics
  format: JPEG
  href: 038896dd-a67f-5e87-a92a-53e068250ef9-featuredImage.jpeg
  size:
    - 300
    - 590
  valid: true
  workPackage: 15121
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Featured_Image.jpg
    link: /api/v3/attachments/27720/content
featuredPdf: null
htmlMetaData:
  author: null
  description: null
  generator: null
  viewport: null
  articlemodified_time: null
  articlepublished_time: null
  msvalidate.01: null
  ogdescription: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogurl: null
  yandex-verification: null
  robots: null
  fbapp_id: null
  oglocale: null
  fbadmins: null
  articlepublisher: null
  google-site-verification: null
  keywords: null
id: 15121
identifier: News
lastMod: '2022-09-29T09:56:00.172658Z'
link:
  brand: prnewswire.com
  href: >-
    https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
  original: >-
    https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
href: >-
  https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
original: >-
  https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: 038896dd-a67f-5e87-a92a-53e068250ef9.md
openGraphMetaData:
  ogdescription: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogurl: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogimageheight: null
openProjectCustomFields:
  cleanUrl: >-
    https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
  medigyTopics:
    - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
    - 'U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): Medical Device Safety'
  sourceUrl: >-
    https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics-301633782.html
openProjectWorkPackageType: Press Release
searchCategory: News
slug: prnewswire-cutting-edge-medical-devices-offer-innovative-options-for-diabetics
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
  - News
title: Cutting Edge Medical Devices Offer Innovative Options for Diabetics
via: ' '
insights_description: null
insights_name: null
viaLink: null
relatedOfferings: null
twitterMetaData:
  twittercard: null
  twitterdescription: null
  twittertitle: null
  twitterimage: null
  twitterurl: null
---
<p>&nbsp;/PRNewswire/ -- In the modern technologically-driven healthcare landscape, the business model of medical device companies has evolved from device makers to problem solvers. In effect, medical device manufacturers are now leveraging the Internet of Things (IoT) and the cloud to improve clinical workflow, help physicians remotely monitor patients with real-time data and analytics solutions and utilize innovative processes to cut costs and improve outcomes. For instance, novel wearable monitoring devices, equipped with the IoT technology, can communicate with smartphones, transferring crucial data to right to user friendly applications. Moreover, there has been an increasing focus on the development of smaller, more reliable, and more energy-efficient devices in recent years. Overall, the global wearable medical device market size is expected to reach USD 29.6 Billion by 2026 and register a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 17.7%, according to Transparency Market Research. Nemaura Medical Inc. (NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">NMRD</a>), DexCom, Inc.&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">DXCM</a>), Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">TNDM</a>), Insulet Corporation&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">PODD</a>), Abbott Laboratories (&nbsp;NYSE: <a href="#financial-modal">ABT</a>)</p><p>Blood glucose monitoring devices (BGM) take up a major portion of the market. These devices are available in a multitude of sizes as well as testing times, enabling patients and clinicians to detect high or low blood glucose levels, allowing for therapy modifications and protecting patients by confirming acute hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia promptly as well as offering patients broader self-care. The technology facilitates patient education about diabetes and its management and encourages people to adopt healthier habits. Furthermore, the increasing geriatric population is propelling market growth. According to the WHO, by 2050, the world's aging population will swell to about 2 billion from 1 billion in 2020.</p><p><strong>Nemaura Medical Inc.</strong>&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">NMRD</a>) just announced breaking news that, "it has entered into a preliminary agreement with EVERSANA®, a pioneer of next-generation commercial services to the global life sciences industry.</p><p>The agreement covers the U.S. and all global sales and marketing of Nemaura's Diabetes Management Solution, BEATdiabetes. The BEATdiabetes program is based on Nemaura's noninvasive glucose monitoring solution, proBEAT. Nemaura and EVERSANA will work together to develop the optimal launch strategy for large-scale adoption of the diabetes management program, including franchising and direct sales to self-insured corporate clients and healthcare insurers.</p><p>In early pilot trials conducted over the last 12 months, the BEATdiabetes program yielded overall positive outcomes, demonstrating that sustainable, long-term weight loss and, therefore, improvement in the management of Type 2 diabetes is achievable. Incumbents in the space have also demonstrated clinically significant outcomes when such diabetes management programs are used in conjunction with continuous glucose monitors. Nemaura, however, has the advantage of its own proprietary noninvasive sensor technology which significantly reduces sensor costs, as the sensors are only worn a few days each month.</p><p>EVERSANA is widely regarded as the leader in digital therapeutic commercialization. Across the life sciences industry, the fully integrated commercialization provider works with more than 670 organizations, including innovative start-ups and established pharmaceutical companies.</p><p>Dr. Faz Chowdhury, Nemaura Medical's Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are excited to be working with EVERSANA to bring our diabetes management solution to market. This is a culmination of several months of negotiations with EVERSANA following the encouraging outcome of the pilot studies. Diabetes management is an area of huge unmet need, and we anticipate that our solution will be very easy, simple to administer, and highly cost-effective, all elements supporting large-scale adoption."</p><p>Jim Lang, Chief Executive Officer of EVERSANA, added, "Nemaura's innovative programs and sensor technology potentially represent a major change in the way in which diabetes is addressed and how patients may be supported. We look forward to leveraging our full suite of commercialization services to support a successful U.S. launch."</p><p><strong>DexCom, Inc.&nbsp;</strong>(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">DXCM</a>) <a href="https://dexcom.gcs-web.com/news-releases/news-release-details/dexcom-one-real-time-continuous-glucose-monitoring-rt-cgm-system">announced</a>&nbsp;on August 1st, the availability of the easy to use Dexcom ONE rt-CGM System on prescription via the NHS England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland drug tariff to everyone with type 1 or type 2 diabetes using insulin. This marks the first time a rt-CGM, with no scanning and no finger pricks†, will be available to people with diabetes at the pharmacy level. Karen Baxter, Vice President, UK &amp; Ireland, Benelux, France and Spain at Dexcom: "The addition of Dexcom ONE to the NHS England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland drug tariff is enormous progress towards improving choice of diabetes tech, providing an alternative to burdensome finger pricks and scanning. We are incredibly proud of the diabetes community and are working hard to make it easier for them to access the best technology possible to manage their diabetes. As a next step, we will be working closely with healthcare professionals to ensure the diabetes community can benefit as quickly as possible from reimbursement and wider availability of Dexcom CGM."</p><p><strong>Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.</strong>&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">TNDM</a>), <a href="https://investor.tandemdiabetes.com/news-releases/news-release-details/tandem-diabetes-care-acquires-infusion-set-developer-capillary">announced</a>&nbsp;on July 21st, its acquisition of infusion set developer, Capillary Biomedical. "Infusion sets provide people flexible options in insulin pump wearability, and we are dedicated to expanding our portfolio of sets to offer our customers even greater choice in personalizing their therapy management system," said&nbsp;John Sheridan,&nbsp;Tandem Diabetes Care&nbsp;president and chief executive officer. "Through this acquisition, and through our efforts with existing infusion set partners, we look forward to developing new and innovative infusion set solutions that are designed to extend wear time and enhance user experience, while reducing occlusions, body burden and waste."</p><p><strong>Insulet Corporation</strong>&nbsp;(NASDAQ: <a href="#financial-modal">PODD</a>) <a href="https://investor.insulet.com/news-releases/news-release-details/insulet-announces-ce-mark-approval-omnipodr-5-automated-insulin">announced</a>&nbsp;on September 20th, it has received CE marking under the European Medical Device Regulation for its Omnipod 5 Automated Insulin Delivery System (Omnipod 5) for individuals aged two years and older with type 1 diabetes. "There is tremendous enthusiasm for Omnipod 5 from the global diabetes community, and we are thrilled to have achieved this latest milestone," said&nbsp;Jim Hollingshead, President and CEO of&nbsp;Insulet. "With Omnipod 5, customers can enjoy the lifestyle benefits of a tubeless, wearable innovation and achieve positive clinical outcomes while managing their diabetes."</p><p><strong>Abbott Laboratories</strong>&nbsp;(&nbsp;NYSE: <a href="#financial-modal">ABT</a>) <a href="https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2022-09-20-New-Data-Shows-That-Abbotts-FreeStyle-Libre-System-Reduces-Diabetes-related-Hospitalizations-for-People-with-Type-2-Diabetes-on-Once-daily-Insulin-Therapy">announced</a>&nbsp;on September 20th, new data from the Real World Evidence of FreeStyle Libre (RELIEF) study showing the use of FreeStyle Libre, a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGM) significantly reduced the rate of hospitalizations due to acute diabetes events (ADEs) for people living with Type 2 diabetes on once-daily (basal) insulin therapy.1&nbsp;These findings were published in the&nbsp;Journal of Diabetes Technology &amp; Therapeutics&nbsp;and presented at the 58th Annual European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) meeting. "The results of the RELIEF study highlight the value of FreeStyle Libre system in reducing serious diabetes-related events and hospitalizations among patients with Type 2 diabetes on basal-only therapy," says Professor Jean-Pierre Riveline, Centre Universitaire du Diabète et de ses Complications, Hôpital Lariboisière. "The reductions are similar to the results seen among the larger cohort of people with Type 2 diabetes who were receiving multiple daily injections, suggesting that FreeStyle Libre technology therapy should be proposed as part of individualized care for patients with Type 2 diabetes on basal-only insulin, not just people on intensive insulin therapy."</p><p>Subscribe Now! Watch us report LIVE <a href="https://www.youtube.com/FinancialBuzzMedia">https://www.youtube.com/FinancialBuzzMedia</a>&nbsp;</p><p>Follow us on Twitter for real time Financial News Updates: <a href="https://twitter.com/financialbuzz">https://twitter.com/financialbuzz</a>&nbsp;</p><p>Follow and talk to us on Instagram: <a href="https://www.instagram.com/financialbuzz">https://www.instagram.com/financialbuzz</a></p><p>Facebook Like Us to receive live feeds: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/Financialbuzz/">https://www.facebook.com/Financialbuzz/</a></p><p><strong>About FinancialBuzz.com</strong>&nbsp;</p><p>FinancialBuzz.com, a leading financial news informational web portal designed to provide the latest trends in Market News, Investing News, Personal Finance, Politics, Entertainment, in-depth broadcasts on Stock News, Market Analysis and Company Interviews. A pioneer in the financially driven digital space, video production and integration of social media, FinancialBuzz.com creates 100% unique original content. FinancialBuzz.com also provides financial news PR dissemination, branding, marketing and advertising for third parties for corporate news and original content through our unique media platform that includes Newswire Delivery, Digital Advertising, Social Media Relations, Video Production, Broadcasting, and Financial Publications.</p><p>FinancialBuzz.com is not a financial advisory or advisor, investment advisor or broker-dealer and do not undertake any activities that would require such registration. The information provided on <a href="http://www.financialbuzz.com/">http://www.FinancialBuzz.com</a> (the 'Site') is either original financial news or paid advertisements provided [exclusively] by our affiliates (sponsored content), FinancialBuzz.com, a financial news media and marketing firm enters into media buys or service agreements with the companies which are the subject to the articles posted on the Site or other editorials for advertising such companies. FinancialBuzz.com has not been compensated directly by any of the companies mentioned here in this editorial unless mentioned otherwise. We are not an independent news media provider and therefore do not represent or warrant that the information posted on the Site is accurate, unbiased or complete. FinancialBuzz.com receives fees for producing and presenting high quality and sophisticated content on FinancialBuzz.com along with other financial news PR media services. FinancialBuzz.com does not offer any personal opinions, recommendations or bias commentary as we purely incorporate public market information along with financial and corporate news. FinancialBuzz.com only aggregates or regurgitates financial or corporate news through our unique financial newswire and media platform. For nemaura medical inc. video production, filming editing, news reporting, financial and corporate news dissemination, FinancialBuzz.com has been compensated five thousand dollars by the company. Our fees may be either a flat cash sum or negotiated number of securities of the companies featured on this editorial or site, or a combination thereof. The securities are commonly paid in segments, of which a portion is received upon engagement and the balance is paid on or near the conclusion of the engagement. FinancialBuzz.com will always disclose any compensation in securities or cash payments for financial news PR advertising. FinancialBuzz.com does not undertake to update any of the information on the editorial or Site or continue to post information about any companies the information contained herein is not intended to be used as the basis for investment decisions and should not be considered as investment advice or a recommendation. The information contained herein is not an offer or solicitation to buy, hold or sell any security. FinancialBuzz.com, members and affiliates are not responsible for any gains or losses that result from the opinions expressed on this editorial or Site, company profiles, quotations or in other materials or presentations that it publishes electronically or in print. Investors accept full responsibility for any and all of their investment decisions based on their own independent research and evaluation of their own investment goals, risk tolerance, and financial condition. FinancialBuzz.com. By accessing this editorial and website and any pages thereof, you agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, as may be amended from time to time. None of the content issued by FinancialBuzz.com constitutes a recommendation for any investor to purchase, hold or sell any particular security, pursue a particular investment strategy or that any security is suitable for any investor. This publication is provided by FinancialBuzz.com. Each investor is solely responsible for determining whether a particular security or investment strategy is suitable based on their objectives, other securities holdings, financial situation needs, and tax status. You agree to consult with your investment advisor, tax and legal consultant before making any investment decisions. We make no representations as to the completeness, accuracy or timeless of the material provided. All materials are subject to change without notice. Information is obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy and completeness are not guaranteed. For our full disclaimer, disclosure and Terms of Use, please visit: <a href="http://www.financialbuzz.com/">http://www.financialbuzz.com</a></p><p><strong>Media&nbsp;Contact:</strong></p><p><a href="https://www.prnewswire.com/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#ff96919990bf9996919e919c969e939d8a8585d19c9092">[email&nbsp;protected]</a><a href="https://www.prnewswire.com/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#cca5a2aaa38caaa5a2ada2afa5ada0aeb9b6b6e2afa3a1">com</a><br>+1-877-601-1879<br><a href="http://www.financialbuzz.com/">www.FinancialBuzz.com</a></p><p>SOURCE FinancialBuzz.com</p><p>&nbsp;</p>