---
aliases: /news/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable
archetype: curated-content
author:
  - Athira Ravi
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
  - /
  - /news/
  - ''
breadcrumbs:
  - Home
  - News
  - Telehealth in 2023 - Predicting the Unpredictable
categories:
  - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
  - 'Gartner: Healthcare'
categorySlug:
  - 'healthcare it news: telehealth'
  - 'gartner: healthcare'
categoryUrl:
  - topic/healthcare-it-news-telehealth
  - topic/gartner-healthcare
categoryLabel:
  - Telehealth
  - Healthcare
contentCategories: netspective-medigy-news-curated-content
institution: null
offering: null
layOut: single
date: '2022-12-19'
description: >-
  Making predictions in unpredictable times can be dangerous. It can be risky to
  make predictions during uncertain times. Perhaps we can only genuinely trust
  the trends that give us the flexibility to d
favIconImage: null
featuredImage:
  alt: Telehealth in 2023 - Predicting the Unpredictable
  format: JPEG
  href: 04a3be75-1e22-57fe-975c-454fac395531-featuredImage.jpeg
  size:
    - 1422
    - 2560
  valid: true
  workPackage: 16349
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Featured_Image.jpg
    link: /api/v3/attachments/29728/content
featuredPdf: null
htmlMetaData:
  author: null
  description: null
  generator: null
  viewport: null
  articlemodified_time: null
  articlepublished_time: null
  msvalidate.01: null
  ogdescription: " Making predictions in unpredictable times can be dangerous. As long-held certainties – even ones as basic as person-to-person contact – have proven unreliable, perhaps we can only really trust the trends that bring us the flexibility to deal with the unexpected. Healthcare is the perfect bellwether. The sector has borne – and continues to bear – the brunt of this volatility. It has been severely limited by emergencies such as the pandemic, just as these events have driven surging demand for its services. The fact is, telehealth helped the industry get through the pandemic and it continued to step up in 2022, pivoting to address new realities. So, if we look at the trends that were accelerated this year, we can see that telehealth is the common thread, and the driving indicator, of what’s to come in 2023. Hospitals at home Even before 2020, the hospital model faced significant challenges. In 2023, spiraling costs alongside tanking recruitment and retention rates will leave some systems in crisis. If we look at staffing alone, research suggests that the US will need an\_additional 275,000 nurses\_this decade, while\_nearly a quarter\_of existing staff report they are thinking of leaving the industry due to issues such as burnout. It’s a situation putting a lot of stress on the system with, for example, Massachusetts reporting\_19,000 unfilled hospital jobs\_in 2022. It’s simply unsustainable. We have an alternative: as telehealth technologies become ever-more sophisticated, we can move the treatment of more patients currently occupying expensive and resource intensive hospital beds to their own homes. We have a precedent: with telehealth stepping up to fill the care vacuum caused by the pandemic – its use skyrocketed between January and April 2020 by\_78 times. The next five to 10 years will see more and more healthcare services move from the hospital to the home.\_ While relieving pressures on hospitals, it will also see telehealth emerge as a distinct and increasingly valuable part of the healthcare mix. Tech giant takeovers Well-executed telehealth combines real-time data, deep consumer insight and the innovative application of technology. Remind you of anything? Telehealth sits squarely in the tech giants’ sweet spot – and it’s a realization that hasn’t gone unnoticed. Google was one of the first to get off the mark – initially as a health data repository, but soon expanding into data-powered and enhanced healthcare services. The company is now making direct\_investments in telehealth\_providers, while Google’s parent, Alphabet, is making billion dollar bets on\_data driven healthcare\_that focuses on the needs of individuals rather than generalized services. Much was made of Amazon’s apparent withdrawal from telehealth as it announced the\_closure of Amazon Care\_this year. Subsequent announcements, however, suggest that this was a reappraisal, not a retreat. The company has now\_acquired One Medical\_– a telehealth-powered primary care provider – for close to $4 billion. Further, its newly launched\_Amazon Clinic\_will act, among other things, as a market place for third-party telehealth providers. The potential of big tech in telehealth is mouth-watering. Meta’s pioneering exploration of the\_metaverse, and\_Microsoft Mesh’s\_development of ‘mixed reality’ technologies, suggest exciting possibilities around remote virtual healthcare environments and treatments. With seemingly limitless opportunities to apply new technologies in the telehealth setting, expect to see more tech giant acquisitions through 2023 and beyond. Behavioral and holistic health Opportunities to shift more, and more complex, aspects of care into the patient’s home, alongside the attention of the tech giants, point to the most intriguing trend of all.\_ The use of behavioral insights to build a holistic care environment – one that truly integrates physical, social, and mental health to create wellbeing. If there’s one thing that big tech nails, it’s\_behavioral insight. Take a stroll across the internet and we are greeted with content that magically aligns with our needs and interests. Now, imagine a health system that applies this level of insight to patients and their care. A health system that goes beyond monitoring a patient’s vitals, providing remote diagnostics and assisting with medication management. A health system that embeds real community by recognizing and connecting like-minded patients. A system that turns ‘remote’ and potentially isolating healthcare into a very real and health-enhancing sense of belonging. This isn’t some soft or intangible benefit. We know that there are clear links between\_anxiety,\_loneliness and depression.\_We know that depression can lead to\_higher morbidity rates in chronic disease\_such as cancer. We know that major depressive disorders cost the US an\_estimated $326 billion\_in pre-pandemic 2018, affecting around 17.5 million adults. And we know that these two figures surged during the pandemic as 11% of US adults reported symptoms of anxiety and depression in 2019, compared to over\_40% in 2021. Fully integrated telehealth offers us the opportunity to not only better treat depression, but intervene long before its incidence – with far reaching implications in terms of care costs, and human health and wellbeing. One thing we can be sure of: unpredictability will outlive 2022. It means that 2023 will continue to see ever-more innovative technologies applied to telehealth. The opportunity is to ensure that these technologies are themselves applied in innovative ways – ways that put the patient and their wellbeing at the center of care. Photo: elenabs, Getty Images  "
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtitle: Telehealth in 2023 – Predicting the Unpredictable
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogurl: null
  yandex-verification: null
  robots: null
  fbapp_id: null
  oglocale: null
  fbadmins: null
  articlepublisher: null
  google-site-verification: null
  keywords: null
id: 16349
identifier: News
lastMod: '2022-12-19T11:17:02.731028Z'
link:
  brand: medcitynews.com
  href: >-
    https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
  original: >-
    https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
href: >-
  https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
original: >-
  https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: 04a3be75-1e22-57fe-975c-454fac395531.md
openGraphMetaData:
  ogdescription: " Making predictions in unpredictable times can be dangerous. As long-held certainties – even ones as basic as person-to-person contact – have proven unreliable, perhaps we can only really trust the trends that bring us the flexibility to deal with the unexpected. Healthcare is the perfect bellwether. The sector has borne – and continues to bear – the brunt of this volatility. It has been severely limited by emergencies such as the pandemic, just as these events have driven surging demand for its services. The fact is, telehealth helped the industry get through the pandemic and it continued to step up in 2022, pivoting to address new realities. So, if we look at the trends that were accelerated this year, we can see that telehealth is the common thread, and the driving indicator, of what’s to come in 2023. Hospitals at home Even before 2020, the hospital model faced significant challenges. In 2023, spiraling costs alongside tanking recruitment and retention rates will leave some systems in crisis. If we look at staffing alone, research suggests that the US will need an\_additional 275,000 nurses\_this decade, while\_nearly a quarter\_of existing staff report they are thinking of leaving the industry due to issues such as burnout. It’s a situation putting a lot of stress on the system with, for example, Massachusetts reporting\_19,000 unfilled hospital jobs\_in 2022. It’s simply unsustainable. We have an alternative: as telehealth technologies become ever-more sophisticated, we can move the treatment of more patients currently occupying expensive and resource intensive hospital beds to their own homes. We have a precedent: with telehealth stepping up to fill the care vacuum caused by the pandemic – its use skyrocketed between January and April 2020 by\_78 times. The next five to 10 years will see more and more healthcare services move from the hospital to the home.\_ While relieving pressures on hospitals, it will also see telehealth emerge as a distinct and increasingly valuable part of the healthcare mix. Tech giant takeovers Well-executed telehealth combines real-time data, deep consumer insight and the innovative application of technology. Remind you of anything? Telehealth sits squarely in the tech giants’ sweet spot – and it’s a realization that hasn’t gone unnoticed. Google was one of the first to get off the mark – initially as a health data repository, but soon expanding into data-powered and enhanced healthcare services. The company is now making direct\_investments in telehealth\_providers, while Google’s parent, Alphabet, is making billion dollar bets on\_data driven healthcare\_that focuses on the needs of individuals rather than generalized services. Much was made of Amazon’s apparent withdrawal from telehealth as it announced the\_closure of Amazon Care\_this year. Subsequent announcements, however, suggest that this was a reappraisal, not a retreat. The company has now\_acquired One Medical\_– a telehealth-powered primary care provider – for close to $4 billion. Further, its newly launched\_Amazon Clinic\_will act, among other things, as a market place for third-party telehealth providers. The potential of big tech in telehealth is mouth-watering. Meta’s pioneering exploration of the\_metaverse, and\_Microsoft Mesh’s\_development of ‘mixed reality’ technologies, suggest exciting possibilities around remote virtual healthcare environments and treatments. With seemingly limitless opportunities to apply new technologies in the telehealth setting, expect to see more tech giant acquisitions through 2023 and beyond. Behavioral and holistic health Opportunities to shift more, and more complex, aspects of care into the patient’s home, alongside the attention of the tech giants, point to the most intriguing trend of all.\_ The use of behavioral insights to build a holistic care environment – one that truly integrates physical, social, and mental health to create wellbeing. If there’s one thing that big tech nails, it’s\_behavioral insight. Take a stroll across the internet and we are greeted with content that magically aligns with our needs and interests. Now, imagine a health system that applies this level of insight to patients and their care. A health system that goes beyond monitoring a patient’s vitals, providing remote diagnostics and assisting with medication management. A health system that embeds real community by recognizing and connecting like-minded patients. A system that turns ‘remote’ and potentially isolating healthcare into a very real and health-enhancing sense of belonging. This isn’t some soft or intangible benefit. We know that there are clear links between\_anxiety,\_loneliness and depression.\_We know that depression can lead to\_higher morbidity rates in chronic disease\_such as cancer. We know that major depressive disorders cost the US an\_estimated $326 billion\_in pre-pandemic 2018, affecting around 17.5 million adults. And we know that these two figures surged during the pandemic as 11% of US adults reported symptoms of anxiety and depression in 2019, compared to over\_40% in 2021. Fully integrated telehealth offers us the opportunity to not only better treat depression, but intervene long before its incidence – with far reaching implications in terms of care costs, and human health and wellbeing. One thing we can be sure of: unpredictability will outlive 2022. It means that 2023 will continue to see ever-more innovative technologies applied to telehealth. The opportunity is to ensure that these technologies are themselves applied in innovative ways – ways that put the patient and their wellbeing at the center of care. Photo: elenabs, Getty Images  "
  ogtitle: Telehealth in 2023 – Predicting the Unpredictable
  ogurl: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogimageheight: null
openProjectCustomFields:
  cleanUrl: >-
    https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
  medigyTopics:
    - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
    - 'Gartner: Healthcare'
  sourceUrl: >-
    https://medcitynews.com/2022/12/telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable/
openProjectWorkPackageType: Curated Content
searchCategory: News
slug: medcitynews-telehealth-in-2023-predicting-the-unpredictable
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
  - News
title: Telehealth in 2023 - Predicting the Unpredictable
via: ' '
insights_description: null
insights_name: null
viaLink: null
relatedOfferings:
  - label: NanoHealth -  NH Assurance
    permalink: /offering/nanohealth---nh-assurance
    categories:
      - 'Medigy: Chronic Care Management (CCM)'
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
    offeringId: 18470
  - label: EMERGE Virtual Care - EMERGE
    permalink: /offering/emerge-virtual-care---emerge
    categories:
      - 'The Healthcare Guys: Healthcare IT'
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
      - 'Symplur: Patient Care'
    offeringId: 18445
  - label: Power Diary-  Clinic Management
    permalink: /offering/power-diary--clinic-management
    categories:
      - 'Healthcare IT Today: Clinical'
      - 'Gartner: Healthcare'
      - 'KLAS: Telehealth'
    offeringId: 18428
  - label: OnCall Health - Telehealth
    permalink: /offering/oncall-health---telehealth
    categories:
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Patient Portal'
    offeringId: 18420
  - label: First Stop Health -  Virtual Mental Care
    permalink: /offering/first-stop-health---virtual-mental-care
    categories:
      - 'Medical Subject Headings (MeSH): Mental Health'
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Telehealth'
    offeringId: 18308
twitterMetaData:
  twittercard: null
  twitterdescription: " Making predictions in unpredictable times can be dangerous. As long-held certainties – even ones as basic as person-to-person contact – have proven unreliable, perhaps we can only really trust the trends that bring us the flexibility to deal with the unexpected. Healthcare is the perfect bellwether. The sector has borne – and continues to bear – the brunt of this volatility. It has been severely limited by emergencies such as the pandemic, just as these events have driven surging demand for its services. The fact is, telehealth helped the industry get through the pandemic and it continued to step up in 2022, pivoting to address new realities. So, if we look at the trends that were accelerated this year, we can see that telehealth is the common thread, and the driving indicator, of what’s to come in 2023. Hospitals at home Even before 2020, the hospital model faced significant challenges. In 2023, spiraling costs alongside tanking recruitment and retention rates will leave some systems in crisis. If we look at staffing alone, research suggests that the US will need an\_additional 275,000 nurses\_this decade, while\_nearly a quarter\_of existing staff report they are thinking of leaving the industry due to issues such as burnout. It’s a situation putting a lot of stress on the system with, for example, Massachusetts reporting\_19,000 unfilled hospital jobs\_in 2022. It’s simply unsustainable. We have an alternative: as telehealth technologies become ever-more sophisticated, we can move the treatment of more patients currently occupying expensive and resource intensive hospital beds to their own homes. We have a precedent: with telehealth stepping up to fill the care vacuum caused by the pandemic – its use skyrocketed between January and April 2020 by\_78 times. The next five to 10 years will see more and more healthcare services move from the hospital to the home.\_ While relieving pressures on hospitals, it will also see telehealth emerge as a distinct and increasingly valuable part of the healthcare mix. Tech giant takeovers Well-executed telehealth combines real-time data, deep consumer insight and the innovative application of technology. Remind you of anything? Telehealth sits squarely in the tech giants’ sweet spot – and it’s a realization that hasn’t gone unnoticed. Google was one of the first to get off the mark – initially as a health data repository, but soon expanding into data-powered and enhanced healthcare services. The company is now making direct\_investments in telehealth\_providers, while Google’s parent, Alphabet, is making billion dollar bets on\_data driven healthcare\_that focuses on the needs of individuals rather than generalized services. Much was made of Amazon’s apparent withdrawal from telehealth as it announced the\_closure of Amazon Care\_this year. Subsequent announcements, however, suggest that this was a reappraisal, not a retreat. The company has now\_acquired One Medical\_– a telehealth-powered primary care provider – for close to $4 billion. Further, its newly launched\_Amazon Clinic\_will act, among other things, as a market place for third-party telehealth providers. The potential of big tech in telehealth is mouth-watering. Meta’s pioneering exploration of the\_metaverse, and\_Microsoft Mesh’s\_development of ‘mixed reality’ technologies, suggest exciting possibilities around remote virtual healthcare environments and treatments. With seemingly limitless opportunities to apply new technologies in the telehealth setting, expect to see more tech giant acquisitions through 2023 and beyond. Behavioral and holistic health Opportunities to shift more, and more complex, aspects of care into the patient’s home, alongside the attention of the tech giants, point to the most intriguing trend of all.\_ The use of behavioral insights to build a holistic care environment – one that truly integrates physical, social, and mental health to create wellbeing. If there’s one thing that big tech nails, it’s\_behavioral insight. Take a stroll across the internet and we are greeted with content that magically aligns with our needs and interests. Now, imagine a health system that applies this level of insight to patients and their care. A health system that goes beyond monitoring a patient’s vitals, providing remote diagnostics and assisting with medication management. A health system that embeds real community by recognizing and connecting like-minded patients. A system that turns ‘remote’ and potentially isolating healthcare into a very real and health-enhancing sense of belonging. This isn’t some soft or intangible benefit. We know that there are clear links between\_anxiety,\_loneliness and depression.\_We know that depression can lead to\_higher morbidity rates in chronic disease\_such as cancer. We know that major depressive disorders cost the US an\_estimated $326 billion\_in pre-pandemic 2018, affecting around 17.5 million adults. And we know that these two figures surged during the pandemic as 11% of US adults reported symptoms of anxiety and depression in 2019, compared to over\_40% in 2021. Fully integrated telehealth offers us the opportunity to not only better treat depression, but intervene long before its incidence – with far reaching implications in terms of care costs, and human health and wellbeing. One thing we can be sure of: unpredictability will outlive 2022. It means that 2023 will continue to see ever-more innovative technologies applied to telehealth. The opportunity is to ensure that these technologies are themselves applied in innovative ways – ways that put the patient and their wellbeing at the center of care. Photo: elenabs, Getty Images  "
  twittertitle: Telehealth in 2023 – Predicting the Unpredictable
  twitterimage: null
  twitterurl: null
---
<p>Making predictions in unpredictable times can be dangerous. It can be risky to make predictions during uncertain times. Perhaps we can only genuinely trust the trends that give us the flexibility to deal with the unexpected, as long-held certainties, even ones as fundamental as person-to-person communication, have shown to be unreliable. The perfect indicator is found in healthcare. The majority of this volatility has been and is still being experienced by the sector. Emergency situations like the pandemic have severely restricted it while also driving up demand for its services. In actuality, telehealth supported the sector through the epidemic and stepped up in 2022, turning to take on new challenges. Consequently, telehealth is the common thread across the trends that accelerated this year.</p><p>Telehealth has experienced significant growth in recent years, driven in part by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here are some of the top trends in telehealth:</p><ul><li>Increased use of virtual visits: The ability to see a healthcare provider remotely has become more popular, as it allows patients to receive care from the comfort of their own homes.</li><li>Integration with electronic health records (EHRs): Many healthcare providers are now using telehealth platforms that are integrated with their EHR systems, which allows for a seamless exchange of patient information and makes it easier for providers to track patient progress over time.</li><li>Expansion of services: Telehealth is being used to provide a wider range of healthcare services, including mental health care, physical therapy, and specialist consultations.</li><li>Use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning: Some telehealth platforms are using AI and machine learning to improve the accuracy and efficiency of diagnosis and treatment.</li><li>Greater accessibility: Telehealth has made it easier for people in rural or underserved areas to access healthcare, as they no longer have to travel long distances to see a provider.</li><li>Insurance coverage: Many insurance plans now cover telehealth services, making it more accessible for patients.</li></ul>