---
aliases: /news/covid-19-coronavirus-response-fund
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- https://giving.ucsf.edu/coronavirus
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- giving.ucsf.edu
- COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Response Fund
categories:
- covid-19
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2020-03-30T08:34:47Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: 2cbe479c-c157-53ad-836f-42198e16ec98-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 1200
  - 630
imagePath: giving.ucsf.edu-covid-19-coronavirus-response-fund
link:
  brand: giving.ucsf.edu
  href: https://giving.ucsf.edu/coronavirus
  original: https://giving.ucsf.edu/coronavirus
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: 2cbe479c-c157-53ad-836f-42198e16ec98
searchCategory: News
slug: giving.ucsf-covid-19-coronavirus-response-fund
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Response Fund
---

We are coordinating with colleagues across the Bay Area and Northern California to care for patients while also protecting the health of our faculty, staff, students, patients, and visitors. As the COVID-19 outbreak expands, teams throughout UCSF’s hospitals, clinics, and research labs are actively monitoring and responding to the evolving situation.

If you would like to support this effort, given the pressure it is placing on UCSF’s constrained resources, please consider a gift to the UCSF COVID-19 Response Fund.

Your gift will be used to address the needs of patients and caregivers impacted by COVID-19, and to support emerging areas of greatest need, such as:

expanding diagnostic and testing capacity.
securing our ability to cover extended staff time and benefits for health care providers working directly on the crisis.
addressing expenses of exposed patients who are not covered by insurance.
ensuring necessary housing for patients and equipment for health care workers. 
Your gift may also be used to combat COVID-19 through a number of research and educational efforts, including:

utilizing next-generation sequencing and gene-editing technologies to develop novel methods for diagnosing the disease.
using cell mapping and computational tools to uncover new or existing therapeutics for treating COVID-19.
training frontline health workers in the US and abroad to respond effectively to the pandemic.
You can learn more about UCSF’s response to COVID-19 by visiting our comprehensive resource site.

We also encourage you to consider supporting regional and national efforts to address COVID-19 by contacting the San Francisco Department of Public Health, the Alameda County Public Health Department, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.