---
aliases: /news/how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools-healthmanagement-org
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- https://healthmanagement.org/c/it/news/how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- healthmanagement.org
- How to choose clinical communication tools - HealthManagement.org
categories:
- healthcare it
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2019-04-02T10:16:39Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: 691da6a7-9a66-5bbe-a5c9-679a72ab86a9-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 300
  - 300
imagePath: healthmanagement.org-how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools-healthmanagement-org
link:
  brand: healthmanagement.org
  href: https://healthmanagement.org/c/it/news/how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools
  original: https://healthmanagement.org/c/it/news/how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: 691da6a7-9a66-5bbe-a5c9-679a72ab86a9
searchCategory: News
slug: healthmanagement-how-to-choose-clinical-communication-tools-healthmanagement-org
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: How to choose clinical communication tools - HealthManagement.org
---

Communication plays a big role in human interaction. In healthcare, effective communication between care providers, and with their patients, is a must. This is because poor communication can adversely impact patient care or even cause medical errors.
 

The advent of multi-use smartphones and mobile devices, including mobile apps and portals, has afforded doctors and medical staff an easy and fast way to communicate with each other and to connect with patients. For healthcare organisations, it is important to choose the right communication tool and optimise its use for improved patient care.

 
You might also like: Tiered FDA medical device security guidance concerns industry


Three experts offer these best practice advice and knowledgeable tips for healthcare CIOs tasked with implementing communications technology. These recommendations are also useful for those organisations with communications technology already up and running.

 

Assessing your facility's clinical needs

 

You are not buying a clinical communication tool simply because this is what many other organisations are using. What you need is a technology that meets your facility's unique needs. To help you with a comprehensive assessment of these needs, get the input and buy-in of the entire organisation, especially those on the front lines, says Paul Coyne, RN, senior director, clinical informatics and advanced practice nursing at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City.