---
aliases: >-
  /news/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate-digital-transformation
archetype: press-release
author:
  - Radhika Narayanan
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
  - /
  - /news/
  - ''
breadcrumbs:
  - Home
  - News
  - >-
    GE Healthcare Developing a Digital Health Platform to Help Providers
    Accelerate Digital Transformation
categories:
  - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
  - 'Healthcare IT News: Digital Innovation'
categorySlug:
  - 'medigy: media (press) release'
  - 'healthcare it news: digital innovation'
categoryUrl:
  - topic/medigy-media-press-release
  - topic/healthcare-it-news-digital-innovation
categoryLabel:
  - Media (Press) Release
  - Digital Innovation
contentCategories: netspective-medigy-news-curated-content
institution:
  - id: 2092
    title: GE Healthcare
    description: >-
      As a leading global medical technology, pharmaceutical diagnostics, and
      digital solutions innovator, GE Healthcare enables clinicians to make
      faster, more informed decisions through intelligent devices, data
      analytics, applications and services, supported by its Edison intelligence
      platform. We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture of respect,
      transparency, and unyielding integrity.
    alias: /profile /offeror/institution/ge-healthcare
    slug: ge-healthcare
    url: /profile/offeror/institution/ge-healthcare
    logo: 2092-logo.JPEG
offering: null
layOut: news-press-release-single
date: '2022-05-17'
description: >-
  GE Healthcare announced its intention to bring to market, a digital health
  platform to be called Edison Digital Health Platform. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;GE
  Healthcare is recruiting healthcare providers and 
favIconImage: null
featuredImage: null
featuredPdf: null
htmlMetaData:
  author: null
  description: null
  generator: null
  viewport: null
  articlemodified_time: null
  articlepublished_time: null
  msvalidate.01: null
  ogdescription: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogurl: null
  yandex-verification: null
  robots: null
  fbapp_id: null
  oglocale: null
  fbadmins: null
  articlepublisher: null
  google-site-verification: null
  keywords: null
id: 13004
identifier: News
lastMod: '2022-05-17T10:09:54.777010Z'
link:
  brand: ge.com
  href: >-
    https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
  original: >-
    https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
href: >-
  https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
original: >-
  https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: 7561e04a-d045-5261-9d10-5046f16596b5.md
openGraphMetaData:
  ogdescription: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogurl: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogimageheight: null
openProjectCustomFields:
  cleanUrl: >-
    https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
  medigyTopics:
    - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
    - 'Healthcare IT News: Digital Innovation'
  sourceUrl: >-
    https://www.ge.com/news/press-releases/ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate
openProjectWorkPackageType: Press Release
searchCategory: News
slug: >-
  ge-ge-healthcare-developing-a-digital-health-platform-to-help-providers-accelerate-digital-transformation
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
  - News
title: >-
  GE Healthcare Developing a Digital Health Platform to Help Providers
  Accelerate Digital Transformation
via: ' '
insights_description: null
insights_name: null
viaLink: null
relatedOfferings:
  - label: Seqster's Digital Front Door
    permalink: /offering/seqsters-digital-front-door
    categories:
      - 'Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS): Data'
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Digital Innovation'
      - 'Healthcare IT Today: Interoperability'
    offeringId: 16066
  - label: Enlyt DFD for Healthcare Payers
    permalink: /offering/enlyt-dfd-for-healthcare-payers
    categories:
      - 'Healthcare IT News: Digital Innovation'
      - 'Symplur: Health Insurance'
    offeringId: 14749
twitterMetaData:
  twittercard: null
  twitterdescription: null
  twittertitle: null
  twitterimage: null
  twitterurl: null
---
<ul><li><i>GE Healthcare announced its intention to bring to market, a digital health platform to be called Edison Digital Health Platform. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>GE Healthcare is recruiting healthcare providers and ecosystem participants to help evaluate the platform in a production setting.</i></li><li><i>A digital health platform is seen as a cost-effective and technically efficient way to speed the pace of digital innovation,</i><a href="#_edn1"><i><strong>[i]</strong></i></a><i> helping providers grow revenue, increase efficiency, improve quality of care, and enhance patient and staff experiences.</i></li><li><i>The platform is being designed to seamlessly aggregate data from multiple sources and vendors to enable clinical applications that support integrated care pathway management and holistic views of each patient. It will include a healthcare specific AI toolkit for building and running applications.</i></li></ul><p><strong>Orlando</strong>– <strong>March 15, 2022 </strong>– Today at HIMSS 2022, GE Healthcare announced its intention to introduce Edison Digital Health Platform, a vendor-agnostic hosting and data aggregation platform with an integrated artificial intelligence (AI) engine. The platform is being developed to enable hospitals and healthcare systems to effectively deploy the clinical, workflow, analytics and AI tools which would support the improvement of &nbsp;care delivery, the promotion of high-efficiency operations, and the increase of revenue growth, while also supporting reduction in the IT burden that typically comes with installing and integrating apps across the enterprise.</p><p>Edison Digital Health Platform is designed to accelerate app integration by connecting devices and other data sources into an aggregated clinical data layer. A collection of data transformation services is expected to be available on the platform to support data analytic applications, and to enable the training and deployment of AI models using the aggregated data. Through open and published interfaces, healthcare providers and third-party developers are expected to be able to seamlessly deploy their applications, with the platform supporting integration of the apps into existing workflows. In addition, GE Healthcare intends to integrate and deploy its own apps such as <a href="https://www.gehccommandcenter.com/">Command Center</a> “tiles” onto Edison Digital Health Platform.</p><p>“Edison Digital Health Platform is being designed to enable healthcare systems to have a single platform on which to host and integrate apps into clinical workflows,” said Amit Phadnis, Chief Digital Officer, GE Healthcare. “With easy access to the workflow, analytics, and clinical apps specific to care across the care continuum, clinicians will have actionable insights at their fingertips to help better serve their patients.”</p><p>With Edison Digital Health Platform, IT departments are intended to benefit from a one-time connection to multiple databases, such as the EMR, during the first integration, after which subsequent apps are expected to connect with less effort. With a vendor-agnostic platform, providers would be able to select best-in-class and preferred apps safely and securely, without the typical requirement of multiple individual integrations or being locked into a single vendor. In addition, the platform is being designed to scale across cloud, server, data center or on-device deployment. Leidos, a preferred premier systems integrator and GE Healthcare Strategic Alliance member, will collaborate with customers on seamless implementations and appropriate integrations.</p><p>“We look forward to working alongside GE Healthcare to address health systems’ technology challenges from the growing demand for app integration,” said Liz Porter, president of Leidos Health Group. “The platform will help reduce digital friction across the enterprise and accelerate the deployment of digital solutions at scale. This will help healthcare providers improve efficiency and drive better care for patients.”</p><p>According to Gartner®, “the DHP (digital health platform) shift will emerge as the most cost-effective and technically efficient way to scale new digital capabilities within and across health ecosystems and will over time replace the monolithic era of the megasuite electronic health record (EHR).” <a href="#_edn2">[ii]</a></p><p>“We expect Edison Digital Health Platform to be a game-changer for clinicians, particularly as it relates to patient data,” said Dr. Felix Nensa, a consultant radiologist at the University Hospital Essen and group leader at the Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Medicine. “They will have the ability to have all of their patients’ data indexed and aggregated in one place, saving hours of time by reducing the need to search across various, disparate systems to access relevant patient information.”</p><p><strong>Forward-looking statements</strong></p><p>This document contains “forward-looking statements”—that is, statements related to future, not past, events. These forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," or “target." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The inclusion of such statements should not be regarded as a representation that such plans or expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such plans or expectations include, among others, (1) that GE Healthcare is not able to design or develop the platform to meet expected functionality or clinical or operational objectives; (2) the risk that the development and evaluation may not be completed in the expected time frame, or at all; and (3) other risk factors as detailed from time to time in GE’s reports filed with the SEC, including GE’s annual report on Forms 10-K, periodic quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.</p><p><strong>About GE Healthcare:</strong></p><p>GE Healthcare is the $17.7 billion healthcare business of GE (NYSE: GE). As a leading global medical technology, pharmaceutical diagnostics and digital solutions innovator, GE Healthcare enables clinicians to make faster, more informed decisions through intelligent devices, data analytics, applications and services, supported by its Edison intelligence platform. With over 100 years of healthcare industry experience and around 47,000 employees globally, the company operates at the center of an ecosystem working toward precision health, digitizing healthcare, helping drive productivity and improve outcomes for patients, providers, health systems and researchers around the world.</p><p><i>Follow us on </i><a href="https://www.facebook.com/GEHealthcare/">Facebook</a><i>,&nbsp;</i><a href="https://cts.businesswire.com/ct/CT?id=smartlink&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fcompany%2Fgehealthcare&amp;esheet=52092118&amp;newsitemid=20190912005483&amp;lan=en-US&amp;anchor=LinkedIn&amp;index=3&amp;md5=31ed65d9e923c4f8dcb71eea54150309">LinkedIn</a><i>,&nbsp;</i><a href="https://cts.businesswire.com/ct/CT?id=smartlink&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2FGEHealthcare&amp;esheet=52092118&amp;newsitemid=20190912005483&amp;lan=en-US&amp;anchor=Twitter&amp;index=4&amp;md5=bf9aff77ff65ab2456dd0f39f622a1a5">Twitter</a><i>&nbsp;and </i><a href="https://www.gehealthcare.com/insights">Insights</a><i>, or visit our website </i><a href="http://www.gehealthcare.com/">www.gehealthcare.com</a><i> for more information.</i></p><p><strong>Media Contact:</strong></p><p><strong>Kyerstin Hill</strong></p><p>External Affairs, GE Healthcare</p><p>+1 636 489 9223</p><p>&nbsp;</p>