---
aliases: /news/are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- http://www.healthcarebusinesstech.com/are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools/
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- healthcarebusinesstech.com
- Are oncologists ready to adopt AI tools?
categories:
- ai
- oncology
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2019-09-18T10:24:42Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: aee76ec4-8ead-55ce-8cf9-5c58b7563005-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 590
  - 300
imagePath: healthcarebusinesstech.com-are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools
link:
  brand: healthcarebusinesstech.com
  href: http://www.healthcarebusinesstech.com/are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools/
  original: http://www.healthcarebusinesstech.com/are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools/
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: aee76ec4-8ead-55ce-8cf9-5c58b7563005
searchCategory: News
slug: healthcarebusinesstech-are-oncologists-ready-to-adopt-ai-tools
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: Are oncologists ready to adopt AI tools?
---

Healthcare technology continues to be a sector of significant spend, with Forbes reporting that public and private investment in healthcare artificial intelligence (AI) is expected to reach $6.6 billion by 2021. An array of new technologies ranging from AI and machine learning to wearables and microchipped drug capsules, once deemed science fiction, have the potential to transform the diagnosis and treatment of disease. Yet historically adoption of technology in health care has been decidedly slower than in other industries, leading to a question of whether these investments will deliver their expected return.

The reasons behind the healthcare industry’s slow adoption of new technology are multifaceted and include everything from regulatory hurdles to cost barriers. But the willingness of healthcare providers to embrace technological innovations at the point of care is certainly a critical factor.

While AI has applications in many disease categories, the potential to apply it in oncology is particularly exciting given the rapidly increasing complexity of cancer treatment in this era of precision medicine and value-based care. To better understand how providers feel about using AI in oncology, a survey was done of 180 oncologists from across the United States, including hospital- and community-based practices. Its purpose was to gauge their views on the potential of AI to improve care, where they see opportunities to leverage it in their practices, and possible barriers to adoption.