---
aliases: /news/leveraging-digital-health-to-improve-patient-satisfaction
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- https://www.himss.org/news/leveraging-digital-health-improve-patient-satisfaction
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- himss.org
- Leveraging Digital Health to Improve Patient Satisfaction
categories:
- digital health
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2019-10-31T09:08:36Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: c855fd55-0e49-5cb8-a5cc-3b7666fc2b7b-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 1200
  - 630
imagePath: himss.org-leveraging-digital-health-to-improve-patient-satisfaction
link:
  brand: himss.org
  href: https://www.himss.org/news/leveraging-digital-health-improve-patient-satisfaction
  original: https://www.himss.org/news/leveraging-digital-health-improve-patient-satisfaction
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: c855fd55-0e49-5cb8-a5cc-3b7666fc2b7b
searchCategory: News
slug: himss-leveraging-digital-health-to-improve-patient-satisfaction
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: Leveraging Digital Health to Improve Patient Satisfaction
---

Ochsner Health System used digital health solutions in their battle to improve chronic disease management across the state of Louisiana. Diabetes and hypertension, chronic diseases that require numerous office visits and regular health monitoring, were two targets for developing digital health tools. With these tools, providers can measure a patient’s compliance and health without the patient coming into the office.

For hypertension patients, Ochsner provided remote monitoring devices to measure blood pressure. Using a minimum of one reading per week, data is automatically uploaded into the EHR, where it is used to identify changes in patient health and trigger interventions if needed. If a patient does not submit a reading within eight days, they receive a text reminding them to take a reading.

Diabetes patients utilized a similar tool—a wireless, digital glucometer to measure blood sugar—with monthly automated reports advising them of their progress.

Using the data collected by the remote monitoring devices, care coordinators and subject matter experts—like pharmacists and health coaches—leverage dashboards to intervene if a patient shows signs of deterioration or is not following the care plan. Providers can drill down to individual patient-level data and receive progress summaries for all patients enrolled in the program.