---
aliases: /news/more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- https://www.opennotes.org/news/more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200-health-systems/
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- opennotes.org
- More Than 40 Million Patients Can Access Their Clinicians’ Visit Notes Via Secure
  Portals at 200 …
categories:
- healthcare it
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2019-07-10T10:13:54Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: e26a1af2-468b-5229-8cf5-166e1385d3ae-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 800
  - 500
imagePath: opennotes.org-more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200
link:
  brand: opennotes.org
  href: https://www.opennotes.org/news/more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200-health-systems/
  original: https://www.opennotes.org/news/more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200-health-systems/
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: e26a1af2-468b-5229-8cf5-166e1385d3ae
searchCategory: News
slug: opennotes-more-than-40-million-patients-can-access-their-clinicians-visit-notes-via-secure-portals-at-200
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: More Than 40 Million Patients Can Access Their Clinicians’ Visit Notes Via
  Secure Portals at 200 …
---

BOSTON — OpenNotes announced today that more than 40 million patients using secure online patient portals can now access the notes written by their clinicians at 200 health systems across the U.S. and Canada.

As the OpenNotes movement continues to support the availability of fully transparent medical records, new studies show positive effects on diverse aspects of care, including communication, engagement, the use of medications, safety, and overall quality.

“Our most recent research, published in the Annals of Internal Medicine and in the Journal of Medical Internet Research, shows that patients, particularly those from underserved populations, feel more engaged in their care and gain greater benefit from reading the notes their clinicians write,” said Catherine DesRoches, DrPH, Executive Director of OpenNotes, researcher in the Division of General Medicine at BIDMC and an Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. “These are important and exciting findings because patients who read their notes report they are more likely to adhere to their treatment plans and medications, identify documentation errors, and follow through on tests and referrals.”

Helping OpenNotes reach the 200 health system mark, organizations recently offering patients access to their clinicians’ notes include: Yuma Regional Medical Center in Arizona, Asante in Oregon, Group Health Cooperative of South Central Wisconsin, Premier Medical Associates in Pennsylvania and Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital in Ontario, Canada.

The overwhelming majority of patients with easy access to notes want such access to continue. “OpenNotes represents a significant paradigm shift for our system and for our providers,” said Lee David Milligan, MD, Senior VP and Chief Information Officer/Chief Medical Information Officer at Asante. “We now openly share clinical notes – including behavioral health notes – with patients in near real-time. Patients have expressed gratitude for being able to see their clinical assessment and plans of care. They have communicated that they appreciate being informed on issues central to their well-being.”