---
aliases: /news/pilot-programme-to-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-in-singapore
archetype: news
author:
- Admin
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /news
- https://www.mobihealthnews.com/news/asia-pacific/pilot-programme-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-singapore
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- News
- mobihealthnews.com
- Pilot programme to improve elderly chronic disease management launched in Singapore
categories:
- chronic
- elderly
collection:
  name: news.healthcareguys.com
date: '2019-10-02T11:49:08Z'
featuredImage:
  format: JPEG
  href: f1082d8d-6dd4-5839-85f5-8fad6a20f102-fi.jpeg
  mime_type: image/jpeg
  size:
  - 700
  - 418
imagePath: mobihealthnews.com-pilot-programme-to-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-in-singapore
link:
  brand: mobihealthnews.com
  href: https://www.mobihealthnews.com/news/asia-pacific/pilot-programme-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-singapore
  original: https://www.mobihealthnews.com/news/asia-pacific/pilot-programme-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-singapore
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: f1082d8d-6dd4-5839-85f5-8fad6a20f102
searchCategory: News
slug: mobihealthnews-pilot-programme-to-improve-elderly-chronic-disease-management-launched-in-singapore
source: dropmark-curations
sub: brief
tags:
- News
title: Pilot programme to improve elderly chronic disease management launched in Singapore
---

After their recent collaboration with Grab in August to ensure that medication is delivered within 90 minutes once the teleconsultation session is complete, Singapore-based digital health startup WhiteCoat announced earlier this week that they are partnering with Homage, an on-demand home caregiving services platform to launch a pilot telehealth programme that complements home-based care.

WHAT’S IT ABOUT

The programme improves the management of chronic diseases and conditions, specifically hypertension, hyperlipidemia and diabetes, which are common among elderly patients, by presenting them with a safe and convenient option to see a doctor at the comfort of their homes. Through its mobile application, WhiteCoat will offer Homage customers a range of medical services, including teleconsultations, issuance of medical referrals as well as prescription, dispensation and delivery of medication at an affordable cost.

As part of the pilot programme, WhiteCoat and Homage have formulated a set criteria to assess if the medical conditions experienced by a Homage customer can be suitably and safely managed by WhiteCoat via telemedicine. After being referred for any of the three chronic conditions as mentioned earlier, WhiteCoat's team of in-house doctors will screen the patients’ past medical and medication history, as well as the severity of his or her current condition to determine their suitability to manage their condition via telemedicine.

Homage’s care professionals will also receive training on the appropriate procedures and protocols so they are able to assist customers who wish to use WhiteCoat’s app. 

When asked on the duration of the pilot programme and its future plans, Bryan Koh, CEO and founder of WhiteCoat, said, “As the programme just launched and implementation is still ongoing, we’ll be observing the rollout for the next six months and make adjustments as necessary before determining the next steps. Ultimately, we hope that this programme can help elderly patients to receive timely and affordable medical attention from our dedicated team of doctors, in the comfort of their homes. Elderly patients may not know how to use telehealth on their own, but with the assistance of Homage’s care professionals, they’ll be able to access on-demand care.”