---
aliases: >-
  /news/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022
archetype: press-release
author:
  - Radhika Narayanan
basePath: /news/
breadcrumbLinks:
  - /
  - /news/
  - ''
breadcrumbs:
  - Home
  - News
  - >-
    AstraZeneca aims to transform cancer care with practice-changing data at
    ASCO 2022
categories:
  - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
  - 'Symplur: Cancer Tag Ontology'
categorySlug:
  - 'medigy: media (press) release'
  - 'symplur: cancer tag ontology'
categoryUrl:
  - topic/medigy-media-press-release
  - topic/symplur-cancer-tag-ontology
categoryLabel:
  - Media (Press) Release
  - Cancer Tag Ontology
contentCategories: netspective-medigy-news-curated-content
institution:
  - id: 2055
    title: AstraZeneca
    description: >-
      We are a global, science-led biopharmaceutical business and our innovative
      medicines are used by millions of patients worldwide. Our business is
      organised to deliver our strategic priorities sustainably, supporting
      continued scientific innovation and commercial success. We focus on the
      discovery, development and commercialisation of prescription medicines in
      Oncology and BioPharmaceuticals, including Cardiovascular, Renal &
      Metabolism, and Respiratory & Immunology.
    alias: /profile /offeror/institution/astrazeneca
    slug: astrazeneca
    url: /profile/offeror/institution/astrazeneca
    logo: 2055-logo.JPEG
offering: null
layOut: news-press-release-single
date: '2022-05-24'
description: >-
  ENHERTU® (fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki) data will show the potential
  to&nbsp;improve survival for metastatic&nbsp;breast cancer patients and define
  a new segment of HER2-low diseaseResults from mul
favIconImage: null
featuredImage: null
featuredPdf: null
htmlMetaData:
  author: null
  description: null
  generator: null
  viewport: null
  articlemodified_time: null
  articlepublished_time: null
  msvalidate.01: null
  ogdescription: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogurl: null
  yandex-verification: null
  robots: null
  fbapp_id: null
  oglocale: null
  fbadmins: null
  articlepublisher: null
  google-site-verification: null
  keywords: null
id: 13120
identifier: News
lastMod: '2022-05-24T09:15:40.707462Z'
link:
  brand: astrazeneca-us.com
  href: >-
    https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
  original: >-
    https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
href: >-
  https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
original: >-
  https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
mastHead: NEWS
mdName: f6161808-5e64-51b9-a50c-f4364f498f7b.md
openGraphMetaData:
  ogdescription: null
  ogtitle: null
  ogurl: null
  ogimage: null
  ogsite_name: null
  ogtype: null
  ogupdated_time: null
  ogimageheight: null
openProjectCustomFields:
  cleanUrl: >-
    https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
  medigyTopics:
    - 'Medigy: Media (Press) Release'
    - 'Symplur: Cancer Tag Ontology'
  sourceUrl: >-
    https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022-05232022.html
openProjectWorkPackageType: Press Release
searchCategory: News
slug: >-
  astrazeneca-us-astrazeneca-aims-to-transform-cancer-care-with-practice-changing-data-at-asco-2022
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
  - News
title: >-
  AstraZeneca aims to transform cancer care with practice-changing data at ASCO
  2022
via: ' '
insights_description: null
insights_name: null
viaLink: null
relatedOfferings: null
twitterMetaData:
  twittercard: null
  twitterdescription: null
  twittertitle: null
  twitterimage: null
  twitterurl: null
---
<p><i>ENHERTU</i>®<i> (fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki) data will show the potential to&nbsp;</i><br><i>improve survival for metastatic&nbsp;breast cancer patients and define a new segment of HER2-low disease</i></p><p><i>Results from multiple trials further reinforce strength of industry-leading portfolio&nbsp;</i><br><i>and pipeline, including novel combinations, across cancers with high unmet need</i></p><p>AstraZeneca advances its ambition to redefine cancer care with new data to be presented across its diverse and industry-leading portfolio of cancer medicines at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting, June 3-7, 2022.</p><p>A total of 18 approved and potential new medicines from AstraZeneca will be featured across more than 100 abstracts, including nine oral presentations and a plenary presentation of the <a href="https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/enhertu-fam-trastuzumab-deruxtecan-nxki-approved-in-the-us-for-patients-with-her2-positive-metastatic-breast-cancer-treated-with-a-prior-anti-her2-based-regimen-05052022.html">DESTINY-Breast04 Phase III trial</a> for ENHERTU® (fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki) in HER2-low metastatic breast cancer.</p><p>Dave Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit, AstraZeneca, said: “Our five leading Oncology medicines have each set new standards for patient outcomes across many cancers. Our data at ASCO will showcase our continued investment in driving innovation with these medicines as well as their long-term impact in real-world settings. In particular, the groundbreaking data from DESTINY-Breast04 will show the potential of ENHERTU to treat patients with HER2-low metastatic breast cancer who have never before been eligible for HER2-targeted treatments.”</p><p>Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&amp;D, AstraZeneca, said: “At AstraZeneca, we are pioneering new biomarkers and novel therapeutic modalities in our ambition to attack cancer from every angle and deliver personalized medicines to more patients. The results from DESTINY-Breast04 support the potential for ENHERTU to redefine the classification and treatment of breast cancer across the spectrum of HER2 expression. We are also excited to share promising clinical data for our bispecific PD1-CTLA4 antibody MEDI5752 in advanced renal cell carcinoma, designed to have both of these clinically validated checkpoint targets in one molecule, delivering efficacy with an improved tolerability profile.”</p><p><strong>Leading through disruption in breast cancer</strong><br>A late-breaking plenary presentation will highlight the potentially practice-changing results of the DESTINY-Breast04 trial of<i> </i>ENHERTU in patients with HER2-low metastatic breast cancer. DESTINY-Breast04 is the first-ever Phase III trial of a HER2-directed therapy to show statistically significant and clinically meaningful benefit in both progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with HER2-low unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer regardless of hormone receptor status compared to standard-of-care chemotherapy.</p><p>Additionally, data from a retrospective study will estimate the prevalence of HER2-low breast cancer and describe its clinical and pathological characteristics, to help identify patients with HER2-low expressing tumors who may benefit from HER2-targeted therapy.</p><p>Further results will be shared from dose-finding and dose-expansion studies of ENHERTU in combination with other anti-cancer agents in patients with advanced or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer (DESTINY-Breast07) and HER2-low breast cancer (DESTINY-Breast08).</p><p>Data will also be presented from a safety follow-up of the DESTINY-Breast03 Phase III trial of ENHERTU in the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer previously treated with trastuzumab and a taxane. ENHERTU was recently <a href="https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/enhertu-fam-trastuzumab-deruxtecan-nxki-approved-in-the-us-for-patients-with-her2-positive-metastatic-breast-cancer-treated-with-a-prior-anti-her2-based-regimen-05052022.html">approved in the US</a> for patients in this setting.</p><p><strong>Revealing the full potential of an industry-leading portfolio and pipeline</strong><br>Beyond breast cancer, AstraZeneca will share results from multiple trials highlighting its focus on delivering life-changing cancer medicines for patients with high unmet need. Data will also support the Company’s commitment to realizing the full potential of its leading medicines with ongoing analyses, real-world data and research into novel combinations.</p><ul><li><strong>MEDI5752 – </strong>An oral presentation will share safety and clinical activity results for MEDI5752 in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma as a monotherapy treatment. MEDI5752 is a novel bispecific antibody that simultaneously targets the immune checkpoint proteins PD-1 and CTLA-4.</li><li><strong>CALQUENCE</strong><i>®</i><strong> (acalabrutinib) – </strong>Updated data from the ELEVATE-TN and ASCEND Phase III trials will highlight long-term safety and efficacy results of CALQUENCE in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) regardless of line of therapy.</li></ul><p>Presentations include updated data with approximately five-years of median follow-up from the ELEVATE-TN trial, which has demonstrated sustained clinical benefit of CALQUENCE either in combination with obinutuzumab or as monotherapy compared to obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil, providing flexibility to tailor treatment for adults with treatment-naïve CLL.</p><p>Additionally, updated results from the ASCEND Phase III trial with approximately four years of median follow-up will highlight the sustained reduction of disease progression or death for CALQUENCE compared to idelalisib plus rituximab or bendamustine plus rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL, as well as a maintained safety profile.</p><ul><li><strong>IMFINZI</strong><i>®</i><strong> (durvalumab) – </strong>Patient-reported outcomes from the HIMALAYA trial will highlight quality of life for patients treated with a single priming dose of tremelimumab added to IMFINZI in 1st-line unresectable liver cancer (STRIDE regimen). HIMALAYA is the first Phase III trial to show that a dual immunotherapy regimen has improved OS versus sorafenib in this setting. Tremelimumab with IMFINZI<i> </i>was <a href="https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/tremelimumab-accepted-under-priority-review-in-the-us-for-patients-with-unresectable-liver-cancer-in-combination-with-imfinzi-04252022.html">recently accepted</a> under Priority Review in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) based on this trial.</li></ul><p>Patient-reported outcomes will also be presented from the TOPAZ-1 trial of IMFINZI<i> </i>plus standard-of-care chemotherapy (gemcitabine plus cisplatin) in 1st-line advanced biliary tract cancer. TOPAZ-1 is the first Phase III trial to show improved survival with an immunotherapy combination versus chemotherapy alone in this setting.</p><p>An additional regional subgroup analysis for the TOPAZ-1 trial will compare efficacy outcomes, including OS, for Asian patients with other geographies. IMFINZI<i> </i>plus chemotherapy was <a href="https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/content/az-us/media/press-releases/2022/imfinzi-plus-chemotherapy-granted-priority-review-in-the-us-for-patients-with-locally-advanced-or-metastatic-biliary-tract-cancer-based-on-topaz-1-phase-iii-trial-05042022.html">recently granted</a> Priority Review in the US by the FDA based on this trial.</p><p>Further clinically relevant safety data from the positive POSEIDON Phase III trial of IMFINZI, tremelimumab and chemotherapy in 1st-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) will also be presented.</p><ul><li><strong>LYNPARZA</strong><i>®</i><strong> (olaparib) –</strong> Data from the PROpel Phase III trial will further reinforce the safety profile of&nbsp;LYNPARZA&nbsp;plus abiraterone in the treatment of 1st-line metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). These data build on PROpel efficacy data, which demonstrated that this combination significantly delayed disease progression versus standard-of-care abiraterone in 1st-line mCRPC in patients with or without homologous recombination repair gene mutations. LYNPARZA&nbsp;is the first PARP inhibitor to demonstrate clinical benefit in combination with a new hormonal agent versus abiraterone alone in this setting.</li><li><strong>TAGRISSO</strong><i>®</i><strong> (osimertinib) – </strong>Results will be shared from the externally sponsored OPAL Phase II trial in previously untreated EGFR-mutated (EGFRm) NSCLC that evaluated whether the addition of platinum-based chemotherapy to TAGRISSO can improve patient outcomes. This combination is also being tested in the ongoing FLAURA2 Phase III trial.</li></ul><p>Real-world data will also be presented to better inform unmet needs and treatment strategies among patients with resectable early-stage NSCLC, providing valuable insights into EGFRm disease prevalence and rates of recurrence, despite adjuvant chemotherapy, in this population. TAGRISSO is approved for the adjuvant treatment of early-stage (IB, II and IIIA) EGFRm NSCLC based on the ADAURA Phase III trial.</p><p>Collaboration in the scientific community is critical to improving outcomes for patients. AstraZeneca is collaborating with, Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited to develop and commercialize ENHERTU and Merck &amp; Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, US (known as MSD outside the US and Canada) to develop and commercialize LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>Key AstraZeneca presentations during ASCO 2022</strong></p><figure class="table"><table><tbody><tr><td><strong>Lead author</strong></td><td><strong>Abstract title</strong></td><td><strong>Presentation details</strong></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Antibody drug conjugates</strong></td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Modi, S</strong></td><td>Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) versus treatment of physician’s choice (TPC) in patients (pts) with HER2-low unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer (mBC): Results of DESTINY-Breast04, a randomized, phase 3 study.</td><td>Abstract #LBA3<br>Plenary Session<br>June 5, 2022<br>2:17pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Hamilton, EP</strong></td><td>Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) versus trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) in patients (pts) with HER2-positive (HER2+) unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer (mBC): Safety follow-up of the randomized, phase 3 study DESTINY-Breast03.</td><td>Abstract #1000<br>Oral Abstract Session Breast Cancer—Metastatic<br>June 4, 2022<br>1:15pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Andre, F</strong></td><td>Dose-finding and -expansion studies of trastuzumab deruxtecan in combination with other anti-cancer agents in patients (pts) with advanced/metastatic HER2+ (DESTINY-Breast07 [DB-07]) and HER2-low (DESTINY-Breast08 [DB-08]) breast cancer (BC).</td><td>Abstract #3025<br>Poster Session Developmental Therapeutics—Molecularly Targeted Agents and Tumor Biology<br>June 5, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Immuno-Oncology</strong></td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Cho, BC</strong></td><td>Durvalumab (D) +/- tremelimumab (T) + chemotherapy (CT) in first-line (1L) metastatic (m) NSCLC: AE management in POSEIDON.</td><td>Abstract #9035<br>Poster Session Lung Cancer—Non-Small Cell Metastatic<br>June 6, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Sangro, B</strong></td><td>Patient-reported outcomes from the phase 3 HIMALAYA study of tremelimumab plus durvalumab in unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.</td><td>Abstract #4074<br>Poster Session Gastrointestinal Cancer—Gastroesophageal, Pancreatic, and Hepatobiliary<br>June 4, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Burris III, HA</strong></td><td>Patient-reported outcomes for the phase 3 TOPAZ-1 study of durvalumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin in advanced biliary tract cancer.</td><td>Abstract #4070<br>Poster Session Gastrointestinal Cancer—Gastroesophageal, Pancreatic, and Hepatobiliary<br>June 4, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Vogel, A</strong></td><td>Regional subgroup analysis of the phase 3 TOPAZ-1 study of durvalumab (D) plus gemcitabine and cisplatin (GC) in advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC).</td><td>Abstract #4075<br>Poster Session Gastrointestinal Cancer—Gastroesophageal, Pancreatic, and Hepatobiliary<br>June 4, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Özgüroğlu, M</strong></td><td>Adverse events self-reported by patients (pts) with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) treated with durvalumab (D) plus platinum-etoposide (EP) or EP in the CASPIAN study.</td><td>Abstract #8571<br>Poster Session Lung Cancer—Non-Small Cell Local-Regional/Small Cell/Other Thoracic Cancers<br>June 6, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Albiges, L</strong></td><td>Safety and clinical activity of MEDI5752, a PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific checkpoint inhibitor, as monotherapy in patients (pts) with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC): Preliminary results from an FTIH trial.</td><td>Abstract #107<br>Clinical Science Symposium Bispecifics: Are Two Better Than One?<br>June 5, 2022<br>10:33am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>DNA damage response</strong></td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Pignata, S</strong></td><td>Maintenance olaparib in patients (pts) with platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer (PSROC) by somatic (s) or germline (g) <i>BRCA</i> and other homologous recombination repair (HRR) gene mutation status: Overall survival (OS) results from the ORZORA study.</td><td>Abstract #5519<br>Poster Discussion Session Gynecologic Cancer<br>June 4, 2022<br>4:30pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Thiery-</strong><br><strong>Vuillemin, A</strong></td><td>Tolerability of abiraterone (abi) combined with olaparib (ola) in patients (pts) with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC): Further results from the phase III PROpel trial.</td><td>Abstract #5019<br>Poster Discussion Session Genitourinary Cancer—Prostate, Testicular, and Penile<br>June 6, 2022<br>5:26pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Armstrong, AJ</strong></td><td>Olaparib plus abiraterone as first-line therapy in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer: Pharmacokinetics data from the PROpel trial.</td><td>Abstract #5050<br>Poster Session Genitourinary Cancer—Prostate, Testicular, and Penile<br>June 6, 2022<br>1:15pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Eskander, RN</strong></td><td>Real-world effectiveness of first-line maintenance olaparib in women with <i>BRCA</i>-mutated advanced ovarian cancer: U.S. retrospective cohort study.</td><td>Abstract #5518<br>Poster Discussion Session Gynecologic Cancer<br>June 4, 2022<br>4:30pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Tumor drivers and resistance</strong></td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Jones, RH</strong></td><td>Fulvestrant plus capivasertib versus fulvestrant plus placebo after relapse or progression on an aromatase inhibitor in metastatic, estrogen receptor–positive breast cancer (FAKTION): Overall survival and updated progression-free survival data with enhanced biomarker analysis.</td><td>Abstract #1005<br>Oral Abstract Session Breast Cancer—Metastatic<br>June 4, 2022<br>2:39pm (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Nakamura, A</strong></td><td>A phase II study of osimertinib in combination with platinum plus pemetrexed in patients with EGFR-mutated, advanced non–small cell lung cancer: The OPAL study (NEJ032C/LOGIK1801).</td><td>Abstract #9097<br>Poster Session Lung Cancer—Non-Small Cell Metastatic<br>June 6, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2"><strong>Hematology</strong></td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Sharman, JP</strong></td><td>Acalabrutinib ± obinutuzumab versus obinutuzumab + chlorambucil in treatment-naïve chronic lymphocytic leukemia: Five-year follow-up of ELEVATE-TN.</td><td>Abstract #7539<br>Poster Session Hematologic Malignancies—Lymphoma and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia<br>June 4, 2022<br>8:00am (CDT)</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p><strong>U.S. Important Safety Information for ENHERTU</strong></p><p><strong>Indications</strong><br>ENHERTU is a HER2-directed antibody and topoisomerase inhibitor conjugate indicated for the treatment of adult patients with:</p><ul><li>Unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer who have received a prior anti-HER2-based regimen either:</li></ul><p>o&nbsp; In the metastatic setting, or</p><p>o&nbsp;&nbsp; In the neoadjuvant or adjuvant setting and have developed disease recurrence during or within six months of completing therapy</p><ul><li>Locally advanced or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma who have received a prior trastuzumab-based regimen</li></ul><p><strong>WARNING: INTERSTITIAL LUNG DISEASE and EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Interstitial lung disease (ILD) and pneumonitis, including fatal cases, have been reported with ENHERTU. Monitor for and promptly investigate signs and symptoms including cough, dyspnea, fever, and other new or worsening respiratory symptoms. Permanently discontinue ENHERTU in all patients with Grade 2 or higher ILD/pneumonitis. Advise patients of the risk and to immediately report symptoms.</strong></li><li><strong>Exposure to ENHERTU during pregnancy can cause embryo-fetal harm. Advise patients of these risks and the need for effective contraception.</strong></li></ul><p><strong>Contraindications</strong><br>None.</p><p><strong>Warnings and Precautions</strong></p><p><strong>Interstitial Lung Disease / Pneumonitis</strong><br>Severe, life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD), including pneumonitis, can occur in patients treated with ENHERTU. Advise patients to immediately report cough, dyspnea, fever, and/or any new or worsening respiratory symptoms. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of ILD. Promptly investigate evidence of ILD. Evaluate patients with suspected ILD by radiographic imaging. Consider consultation with a pulmonologist. For asymptomatic ILD/pneumonitis (Grade 1), interrupt ENHERTU until resolved to Grade 0, then if resolved in ≤28 days from date of onset, maintain dose. If resolved in &gt;28 days from date of onset, reduce dose one level. Consider corticosteroid treatment as soon as ILD/pneumonitis is suspected (e.g., ≥0.5 mg/kg/day prednisolone or equivalent). For symptomatic ILD/pneumonitis (Grade 2 or greater), permanently discontinue ENHERTU. Promptly initiate systemic corticosteroid treatment as soon as ILD/pneumonitis is suspected (e.g., ≥1 mg/kg/day prednisolone or equivalent) and continue for at least 14 days followed by gradual taper for at least 4 weeks.</p><p>Metastatic Breast Cancer<br>In clinical studies, of the 491 patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer treated with ENHERTU 5.4 mg/kg, ILD occurred in 13% of patients. Fatal outcomes due to ILD and/or pneumonitis occurred in 1.4% of patients treated with ENHERTU. Median time to first onset was 5.5 months (range: 1.1 to 20.8).</p><p>Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Cancer<br>In DESTINY-Gastric01, of the 125&nbsp;patients with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‑positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma treated with ENHERTU 6.4&nbsp;mg/kg, ILD occurred in 10% of patients. Median time to first onset was 2.8 months (range: 1.2&nbsp;to&nbsp;21.0).</p><p><strong>Neutropenia</strong><br>Severe neutropenia, including febrile neutropenia, can occur in patients treated with ENHERTU. Monitor complete blood counts prior to initiation of ENHERTU and prior to each dose, and as clinically indicated. For Grade 3 neutropenia (Absolute Neutrophil Count [ANC] &lt;1.0 to 0.5 x 109/L) interrupt ENHERTU until resolved to Grade 2 or less, then maintain dose. For Grade 4 neutropenia (ANC &lt;0.5 x 109/L) interrupt ENHERTU until resolved to Grade 2 or less. Reduce dose by one level. For febrile neutropenia (ANC &lt;1.0 x 109/L and temperature &gt;38.3ºC or a sustained temperature of ≥38ºC for more than 1 hour), interrupt ENHERTU until resolved. Reduce dose by one level.</p><p>Metastatic Breast Cancer<br>In clinical studies, of the 491 patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer who received ENHERTU 5.4 mg/kg, a decrease in neutrophil count was reported in 68% of patients. Eighteen percent had Grade 3 or 4 decrease in neutrophil count. Median time to first onset of decreased neutrophil count was 22 days (range: 6 to 664). Febrile neutropenia was reported in 1.2% of patients.</p><p>Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Cancer<br>In DESTINY-Gastric01, of the 125&nbsp;patients with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‑positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma treated with ENHERTU 6.4&nbsp;mg/kg, a decrease in neutrophil count was reported in 72% of patients. Fifty-one percent had Grade&nbsp;3&nbsp;or&nbsp;4 decreased neutrophil count. Median time to first onset of decreased neutrophil count was 16 days (range: 4 to 187). Febrile neutropenia was reported in 4.8% of patients.</p><p><strong>Left Ventricular Dysfunction</strong><br>Patients treated with ENHERTU may be at increased risk of developing left ventricular dysfunction. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decrease has been observed with anti-HER2 therapies, including ENHERTU. Assess LVEF prior to initiation of ENHERTU and at regular intervals during treatment as clinically indicated. Manage LVEF decrease through treatment interruption. When LVEF is &gt;45% and absolute decrease from baseline is 10-20%, continue treatment with ENHERTU. When LVEF is 40-45% and absolute decrease from baseline is &lt;10%, continue treatment with ENHERTU and repeat LVEF assessment within 3 weeks. When LVEF is 40-45% and absolute decrease from baseline is 10-20%, interrupt ENHERTU and repeat LVEF assessment within 3 weeks. If LVEF has not recovered to within 10% from baseline, permanently discontinue ENHERTU. If LVEF recovers to within 10% from baseline, resume treatment with ENHERTU at the same dose. When LVEF is &lt;40% or absolute decrease from baseline is &gt;20%, interrupt ENHERTU and repeat LVEF assessment within 3 weeks. If LVEF of &lt;40% or absolute decrease from baseline of &gt;20% is confirmed, permanently discontinue ENHERTU. Permanently discontinue ENHERTU in patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure. Treatment with ENHERTU has not been studied in patients with a history of clinically significant cardiac disease or LVEF &lt;50% prior to initiation of treatment.</p><p>Metastatic Breast Cancer<br>In the 491 patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer who received ENHERTU 5.4 mg/kg, 13 cases (2.6%) of asymptomatic LVEF decrease were reported.</p><p>Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Cancer<br>In DESTINY-Gastric01, of the 125&nbsp;patients with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‑positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma treated with ENHERTU 6.4&nbsp;mg/kg, no clinical adverse events of heart failure were reported; however, on echocardiography, 8% were found to have asymptomatic Grade 2 decrease in LVEF.</p><p><strong>Embryo-Fetal Toxicity</strong><br>ENHERTU can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Advise patients of the potential risks to a fetus. Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to the initiation of ENHERTU. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 7 months following the last dose of ENHERTU. Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ENHERTU and for at least 4 months after the last dose of ENHERTU.</p><p><strong>Additional Dose Modifications</strong><br><strong>Thrombocytopenia</strong><br>For Grade 3 thrombocytopenia (platelets &lt;50 to 25 x 109/L) interrupt ENHERTU until resolved to Grade 1 or less, then maintain dose. For Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (platelets &lt;25 x 109/L) interrupt ENHERTU until resolved to Grade 1 or less. Reduce dose by one level.</p><p><strong>Adverse Reactions</strong><br>Metastatic Breast Cancer<br>The pooled safety population for patients with metastatic breast cancer reflects exposure to ENHERTU at 5.4 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion once every 3 weeks (21-day cycle) in 491 patients in DESTINY-Breast03, DESTINY-Breast01, and Study DS8201-A-J101. The median duration of treatment was 13 months (range: 0.7 to 37). In this pooled safety population, the most common (≥20%) adverse reactions, including laboratory abnormalities, were nausea&nbsp;(78%), decreased white blood cell count (74%), decreased&nbsp;hemoglobin (68%), decreased neutrophil count&nbsp;(68%), increased aspartate aminotransferase&nbsp;(58%), fatigue&nbsp;(57%), decreased lymphocyte count&nbsp;(56%), vomiting&nbsp;(50%), decreased platelet count&nbsp;(49%), increased alanine aminotransferase&nbsp;(48%), increased blood alkaline phosphatase&nbsp;(45%), alopecia&nbsp;(41%), constipation&nbsp;(35%), hypokalemia&nbsp;(33%), decreased appetite&nbsp;(32%), diarrhea&nbsp;(31%), musculoskeletal pain&nbsp;(28%), increased transaminases (27%), respiratory infection&nbsp;(24%), headache&nbsp;(21%), and abdominal pain&nbsp;(21%).</p><p><i>DESTINY-Breast03</i><br>The safety of ENHERTU was evaluated in 257 patients with unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer who received at least one dose of ENHERTU 5.4 mg/kg in DESTINY-Breast03. ENHERTU was administered by intravenous infusion once every three weeks. The median duration of treatment was 14 months (range: 0.7 to 30).</p><p>Serious adverse reactions occurred in 19% of patients receiving ENHERTU. Serious adverse reactions in &gt;1% of patients who received ENHERTU were vomiting, interstitial lung disease, pneumonia, pyrexia, and urinary tract infection.&nbsp;Fatalities due to adverse reactions occurred in 0.8% of patients including COVID-19 and sudden death (one patient each).</p><p>ENHERTU was permanently discontinued in 14% of patients, of which ILD/pneumonitis accounted for 8%. Dose interruptions due to adverse reactions occurred in 44% of patients treated with ENHERTU. The most frequent adverse reactions (&gt;2%) associated with dose interruption were neutropenia, leukopenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, pneumonia, nausea, fatigue, and ILD/pneumonitis. Dose reductions occurred in 21% of patients treated with ENHERTU. The most frequent adverse reactions (&gt;2%) associated with dose reduction were nausea, neutropenia, and fatigue.</p><p>The most common (≥20%) adverse reactions, including laboratory abnormalities, were nausea (76%), decreased white blood cell count (74%), decreased neutrophil count (70%), increased aspartate aminotransferase (67%), decreased hemoglobin (64%), decreased lymphocyte count (55%), increased alanine aminotransferase (53%), decreased platelet count (52%), fatigue (49%), vomiting (49%), increased blood alkaline phosphatase (49%), alopecia (37%), hypokalemia (35%), constipation (34%), musculoskeletal pain (31%), diarrhea (29%), decreased appetite (29%), respiratory infection (22%), headache (22%), abdominal pain (21%), increased blood bilirubin (20%), and stomatitis (20%).</p><p>Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Cancer<br>The safety of ENHERTU was evaluated in 187&nbsp;patients with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‑positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma in DESTINY‑Gastric01. Patients intravenously received at least one dose of either ENHERTU (N=125) 6.4&nbsp;mg/kg once every three weeks or either irinotecan (N=55) 150 mg/m2 biweekly or paclitaxel (N=7) 80 mg/m2 weekly for 3 weeks. The median duration of treatment was 4.6&nbsp;months (range: 0.7&nbsp;to&nbsp;22.3) in the ENHERTU group and 2.8&nbsp;months (range: 0.5&nbsp;to&nbsp;13.1) in the irinotecan/paclitaxel group.</p><p>Serious adverse reactions occurred in 44% of patients receiving ENHERTU 6.4 mg/kg. Serious adverse reactions in &gt;2% of patients who received ENHERTU were decreased appetite, ILD, anemia, dehydration, pneumonia, cholestatic jaundice, pyrexia, and tumor hemorrhage. Fatalities due to adverse reactions occurred in 2.4% of patients: disseminated intravascular coagulation, large intestine perforation, and pneumonia occurred in one patient each (0.8%).</p><p>ENHERTU was permanently discontinued in 15% of patients, of which ILD accounted for 6%. Dose interruptions due to adverse reactions occurred in 62% of patients treated with ENHERTU. The most frequent adverse reactions (&gt;2%) associated with dose interruption were neutropenia, anemia, decreased appetite, leukopenia, fatigue, thrombocytopenia, ILD, pneumonia, lymphopenia, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, and hypokalemia. Dose reductions occurred in 32% of patients treated with ENHERTU. The most frequent adverse reactions (&gt;2%) associated with dose reduction were neutropenia, decreased appetite, fatigue, nausea, and febrile neutropenia.</p><p>The most common (≥20%) adverse reactions, including laboratory abnormalities, were decreased hemoglobin (75%), decreased white blood cell count (74%), decreased neutrophil count (72%), decreased lymphocyte count (70%), decreased platelet count (68%), nausea (63%), decreased appetite (60%), increased aspartate aminotransferase (58%), fatigue (55%), increased blood alkaline phosphatase (54%), increased alanine aminotransferase (47%), diarrhea (32%), hypokalemia (30%), vomiting (26%), constipation (24%), increased blood bilirubin (24%), pyrexia (24%), and alopecia (22%).</p><p><strong>Use in Specific Populations</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Pregnancy: </strong>ENHERTU can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Advise patients of the potential risks to a fetus. There are clinical considerations if ENHERTU is used in pregnant women, or if a patient becomes pregnant within 7 months following the last dose of ENHERTU.</li><li><strong>Lactation: </strong>There are no data regarding the presence of ENHERTU in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, or the effects on milk production. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child, advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with ENHERTU and for 7 months after the last dose.</li><li><strong>Females and Males of Reproductive Potential: </strong>Pregnancy testing: Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of ENHERTU. Contraception: <i>Females</i>: ENHERTU can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ENHERTU and for at least 7 months following the last dose. <i>Males</i>: Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ENHERTU and for at least 4 months following the last dose. Infertility: ENHERTU may impair male reproductive function and fertility.</li><li><strong>Pediatric Use: </strong>Safety and effectiveness of ENHERTU have not been established in pediatric patients.</li><li><strong>Geriatric Use: </strong>Of the 491 patients with HER2-positive breast cancer treated with ENHERTU 5.4&nbsp;mg/kg, 22% were ≥65 years and 4% were ≥75 years. No overall differences in efficacy within clinical studies were observed between patients ≥65 years of age compared to younger patients. There was a higher incidence of Grade 3-4 adverse reactions observed in patients aged ≥65 years (60%) as compared to younger patients (49%). Of the 125&nbsp;patients with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‑positive gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma treated with ENHERTU 6.4&nbsp;mg/kg in DESTINY-Gastric01, 56% were ≥65&nbsp;years and 14% were ≥75&nbsp;years. No overall differences in efficacy or safety were observed between patients ≥65 years of age compared to younger patients.</li><li><strong>Renal Impairment:</strong> A higher incidence of Grade 1 and 2 ILD/pneumonitis has been observed in patients with moderate renal impairment. Monitor patients with moderate or severe renal impairment.</li><li><strong>Hepatic Impairment: </strong>In patients with moderate hepatic impairment, due to potentially increased exposure, closely monitor for increased toxicities related to the topoisomerase inhibitor.</li></ul><p><strong>To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or fda.gov/medwatch.</strong></p><p><strong>Please see accompanying full </strong><a href="https://dsi.com/prescribing-information-portlet/getPIContent?productName=Enhertu&amp;inline=true">Prescribing Information</a><strong>, including Boxed WARNINGS, and </strong><a href="https://dsi.com/prescribing-information-portlet/getPIContent?productName=Enhertu_Med&amp;inline=true">Medication Guide.</a></p><p><strong>SELECT SAFETY INFORMATION FOR CALQUENCE® (acalabrutinib)</strong></p><p><strong>INDICATION AND USAGE</strong><br>CALQUENCE is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).</p><p><strong>SELECT SAFETY INFORMATION</strong><br>Serious adverse events, including fatal events, have occurred with CALQUENCE, including serious and opportunistic infections, hemorrhage, cytopenias, second primary malignancies, and atrial fibrillation and flutter. The most common adverse reactions (≥ 30%) of any grade in patients with CLL were anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, and diarrhea.</p><p><strong>Please see full&nbsp;</strong><a href="https://protect-eu.mimecast.com/s/WQCEC2g5kcGzkj2InJlpp?domain=nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com"><strong>Prescribing Information</strong></a><strong>&nbsp;including&nbsp;</strong><a href="https://protect-eu.mimecast.com/s/HAlQC3j51HMzmBguq2Avl?domain=nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com"><strong>Patient Information</strong></a><strong>.</strong></p><p><strong>SELECT SAFETY INFORMATION FOR IMFINZI®&nbsp;(durvalumab)&nbsp;</strong><br>Immune-mediated adverse reactions, which may be severe or fatal, can occur in any organ system or tissue, including the following: immune-mediated pneumonitis, immune-mediated colitis, immune-mediated hepatitis, immune-mediated endocrinopathies, immune-mediated dermatologic adverse reactions,&nbsp; immune-mediated nephritis and renal dysfunction, and solid organ transplant rejection. IMFINZI can cause severe or life-threatening infusion-related reactions. Fatal and other serious complications can occur in patients who receive allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) before or after being treated with a PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibody.</p><p>Advise women not to become pregnant or breastfeed during treatment with IMFINZI and for at least 3 months after the last dose.&nbsp;</p><p>In the PACIFIC trial, the most frequent serious adverse reactions reported in at least 2% of patients were pneumonitis or radiation pneumonitis (7%) and pneumonia (6%). In the CASPIAN trial, the most frequent serious adverse reactions reported in at least 1% of patients were febrile neutropenia (4.5%), pneumonia (2.3%), anemia (1.9%), pancytopenia (1.5%), pneumonitis (1.1%) and COPD (1.1%).</p><p>Most common adverse reactions (≥20% of patients with unresectable, Stage III NSCLC) were cough, fatigue, pneumonitis/radiation pneumonitis, upper respiratory tract infections, dyspnea, and rash. Most common adverse reactions (≥20% of patients with extensive-stage SCLC) were, nausea, fatigue/asthenia, alopecia.</p><p>The safety and effectiveness of IMFINZI have not been established in pediatric patients.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>INDICATION</strong></p><p>IMFINZI is indicated for the treatment of patients with&nbsp;unresectable Stage III&nbsp;non-small&nbsp;cell lung cancer (NSCLC)&nbsp;whose disease has not progressed following concurrent&nbsp;platinum-based&nbsp;chemotherapy and radiation therapy.</p><p><strong>Please see complete&nbsp;</strong><a href="http://www.azpicentral.com/pi.html?product=imfinzi"><strong>Prescribing Information</strong></a><strong>, including Patient Information</strong></p><p><strong>SELECT SAFETY INFORMATION for LYNPARZA® (olaparib) tablets</strong><br>LYNPARZA is associated with serious, potentially fatal risks, including myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia (MDS/AML), pneumonitis.&nbsp;Additionally, serious, potentially fatal risk of venous thromboembolic events has been reported with LYNPARZA in mCRPC. LYNPARZA can also cause fetal harm.</p><p><strong>U.S. FDA-APPROVED INDICATIONS</strong></p><p>LYNPARZA is a poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor indicated:</p><p><strong>First-Line Maintenance&nbsp;</strong><i><strong>BRCA</strong></i><strong>m Advanced Ovarian Cancer</strong><br>For the maintenance treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline or somatic&nbsp;<i>BRCA</i>-mutated (g<i>BRCA</i>m or s<i>BRCA</i>m) advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>First-Line Maintenance HRD Positive Advanced Ovarian Cancer in Combination with Bevacizumab</strong><br>In combination with bevacizumab for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy and whose cancer is associated with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) positive status defined by either:</p><ul><li>a deleterious or suspected deleterious&nbsp;<i>BRCA</i>&nbsp;mutation, and/or</li><li>genomic instability</li></ul><p>Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>Maintenance Recurrent Ovarian Cancer</strong><br>For the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, who are in complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy.</p><p><strong>Advanced g</strong><i><strong>BRCA</strong></i><strong>m Ovarian Cancer</strong><br>For the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline&nbsp;<i>BRCA</i>-mutated (g<i>BRCA</i>m) advanced ovarian cancer who have been treated with 3 or more prior lines of chemotherapy. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>Adjuvant Treatment of g</strong><i><strong>BRCA</strong></i><strong>m, HER2-Negative, High-Risk Early Breast Cancer</strong><br>For the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious g<i>BRCA</i>m, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2&nbsp;(HER2)-negative&nbsp;high-risk&nbsp;early breast cancer who have been treated with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>g</strong><i><strong>BRCA</strong></i><strong>m, HER2-Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer</strong><br>For the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious g<i>BRCA</i>m, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative metastatic breast cancer who have been treated with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant, or metastatic setting. Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should have been treated with a prior endocrine therapy or be considered inappropriate for endocrine therapy. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>First-Line Maintenance g</strong><i><strong>BRCA</strong></i><strong>m Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer</strong><br>For the maintenance treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious g<i>BRCA</i>m metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma whose disease has not progressed on at least 16 weeks of a first-line platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>HRR Gene-mutated Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer</strong><br>For the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline or somatic homologous recombination repair (HRR) gene-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who have progressed following prior treatment with enzalutamide or abiraterone. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for LYNPARZA.</p><p><strong>Please&nbsp;</strong><a href="https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.azpicentral.com%2Flynparza_tb%2Flynparza_tb.pdf%23page%3D1&amp;data=04%7C01%7CCourtland.Long%40zenogroup.com%7Cf0bc907ae50045cdf08f08d9193a467a%7Cb824bfb3918e43c2bb1cdcc1ba40a82b%7C0%7C1%7C637568560350219036%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&amp;sdata=UnvUjHWsa4DnYM%2F%2F6baojEjlegvzUqiMqAPD3hxo5qk%3D&amp;reserved=0"><strong>click here</strong></a><strong>&nbsp;for complete Prescribing Information, including Patient Information (Medication Guide).</strong></p><p><strong>SELECT SAFETY INFORMATION FOR TAGRISSO® (osimertinib)</strong></p><ul><li>There are no contraindications for TAGRISSO</li><li>TAGRISSO is associated with several serious and sometimes fatal adverse reactions, including interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis, QTc interval prolongation, cardiomyopathy, keratitis, erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and embryo-fetal toxicity</li><li>The most common adverse reactions (≥20%) were diarrhea, rash, dry skin, nail toxicity, stomatitis, fatigue, and decreased appetite</li></ul><p><strong>U.S. FDA-APPROVED INDICATIONS</strong></p><ul><li>TAGRISSO is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors have epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 deletions or exon 21 L858R mutations, as detected by an FDA-approved test</li><li>TAGRISSO is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic EGFR T790M mutation-positive NSCLC, as detected by an FDA-approved test, whose disease has progressed on or after EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy</li></ul><p><strong>Please see complete&nbsp;</strong><a href="https://den8dhaj6zs0e.cloudfront.net/50fd68b9-106b-4550-b5d0-12b045f8b184/52503580-1192-44f7-a05e-5743159ed19b/52503580-1192-44f7-a05e-5743159ed19b_viewable_rendition__v.pdf"><strong>Prescribing Information,</strong></a><strong>&nbsp;including Patient Information.</strong></p><p><strong>Notes</strong></p><p><strong>AstraZeneca in oncology</strong><br>AstraZeneca is leading a revolution in oncology with the ambition to provide cures for cancer in every form, following the science to understand cancer and all its complexities to discover, develop and deliver life-changing medicines to patients.</p><p>The Company’s focus is on some of the most challenging cancers. It is through persistent innovation that AstraZeneca has built one of the most diverse portfolios and pipelines in the industry, with the potential to catalyze changes in the practice of medicine and transform the patient experience.</p><p>AstraZeneca has the vision to redefine cancer care and, one day, eliminate cancer as a cause of death.</p><p><strong>About AstraZeneca</strong><br>AstraZeneca is a global, science-led biopharmaceutical company that focuses on the discovery, development, and commercialization of prescription medicines in Oncology, Rare Diseases, and BioPharmaceuticals, including Cardiovascular, Renal &amp; Metabolism, and Respiratory &amp; Immunology. Based in Cambridge, UK, AstraZeneca operates in over 100 countries and its innovative medicines are used by millions of patients worldwide. Please visit <a href="https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/">astrazeneca-us.com&nbsp;</a> and follow the Company on Twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/AstraZenecaUS">@AstraZenecaUS</a>.</p><p><strong>Media Inquiries</strong></p><p>Brendan McEvoy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; +1 302 885 2677<br>Jessica McDuell &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;+1 302 885 2677&nbsp;</p><p>US Media Mailbox: <a href="mailto:usmediateam@astrazeneca.com%20">usmediateam@astrazeneca.com&nbsp;</a> &nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>